---
layout: note
category: note
title: Harmonic Drive Gearing (AKA Strain Wave Gearing)
subtitle:
date: oct 2021
tags: technology objects devices engineering misc
---

## How a Harmonic Drive Gear System Works
Harmonic drive component sets consist of only
three precision components: wave
generator, flex spline, and circular spline.

The wave generator is the driven element
of the transmission. the ellipse shaped
form of the wave generator is fitted
with a specially designed ball bearing.

The flex spline is a high-strength,
torsionally stiff, yet flexible component
with external teeth which reliably
transmits high loads.

The circular spline is designed as a
rigid ring with internal teeth. The
circular spline has two teeth more than
a flex spline does.

By inserting the wave generator into the
Flex spline the Flex spline assumes the
elliptical shape of the wave generator.

The rotating wave generator causes the
Flex spline to radially deform.

The assembled gear has two diametrically
opposed tooth engagement areas
around the major axis of the ellipse.

The rotation of the wave generator causes
the meshing of the flex spline and
circular splines to move around the gear's
circumference

since the Flex spline has two teeth less
than the circular spline, rotating the
wave generator leads to a relative
movement between the Flex spline and the
circular spline.

Harmonic drive gears and
servo actuators are used wherever zero
backlash, extraordinary precision, and
high reliability are required.

## Advantages Over Traditional Gearing Systems 

Strain wave gearing has some advantages over traditional gearing systems such as helical¹ or planetary² gears, including:

- No backlash
- Compactness and light weight
- High gear ratios
- Reconfigurable ratios within a standard housing
- Good resolution and excellent repeatability (linear representation) when repositioning inertial loads
- High torque capability
- Coaxial input and output shafts
- High gear reduction ratios are possible in a small volume (ratio from 30:1 up to 320:1 is possible in the same space in which planetary gears² typically only produce 10:1 ratio).


## NOTE:
A ball used in a ball bearing is not a ball bearing— it is just a ball. A ball bearing is the entire device in which balls are used to maintain separation between bearing races (usually rings or sliders) and eliminate friction.

Individual balls in a ball bearing are often incorrectly referred to as a ball bearing, but this is a synecdochic mistake— an element of the system is mistakenly used to refer to the whole


[[dying]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[dying]: dying "Dying"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"